# Delta Update Server for Open Balena

Open source delta update server for [openbalena](https://github.com/balena-io/open-balena), a platform to deploy and manage connected devices.

## Features
The goal of this project is to faciliate delta image updates, which result in significantly less traffic to devices when downloading images from your `open-balena` servers.  Traditional updates result in devices re-downloading all layers after the point where a change is made in the dockerfile, even if those subsequent layers have not changed.  Delta updates utilize balena-engine (v3) or rsync (v2) to do a binary compare of the image, and only result in downloading of the changed data relative to the image already installed on a device.

## Compatibility
This project is compatible with `open-balena` and specifically relies on the `open-balena-registry` component.  

## Installation

`open-balena-delta` is meant to be installed as part of `open-balena`, and ideally at the same time.  For thoes running `open-balena` on k8s, we have included services to build it in the [open-balena helm project](https://github.com/dcaputo-harmoni/open-balena-helm). If you are running `open-balena` via docker-compose, you will need to modify the scripts to mirror the setup in the helm charts or recreate it using the configuration steps below.

To configure `open-balena-delta` you must define four environment variables and two volumes for the container:

Environment Variables:

- **BALENA_TLD**: `open-balena` base hostname i.e. openbalena.<yourdomain.com>
- **REGISTRY_HOST**: `open-balena-registry` hostmame, i.e. registry.openbalena.<yourdomain.com>
- **DOCKER_HOST**: You likely want to set this to "unix:///var/run/docker.sock"
- **DOCKER_BUILDKIT**: You likely want to set this to "0"
- **TOKEN_AUTH_BUILDER_TOKEN**: The master builder token which was generated by the qucikstart script when you installed `open-balena`

Volumes:

- **/var/lib/balena-engine**: This volume is needed to support overlay2 file system in a container
- **/delta-rsync**: This volume is needed to store rsync deltas, which are necessary if using v2 deltas

You will also need to set up a new hostname for your `open-balena-delta` instance, which likely will just be mapped to your `open-balena` haproxy instance, assuming you used the helm script or otherwise integrated it with your docker-compose scripts.

Hostnames:

- **delta.<yourdomain.com>**: IP address / hostname of `open-balena-haproxy`

## Integration
To integrate `open-balena-delta` in your `open-balena` environment, you will need to make some configuration changes as outlined below.  If you utilize the `open-balena-helm` scripts, this will be handled for you.  Below is a summary of what needs to be done.

### Changes to `open-balena-api`
You will need to add an the following environment variable to your `open-balena-api` container:

- ***DELTA_HOST***: The hostname of your `open-balena-delta` instance, i.e. delta.openbalena.<yourdomain.com>

### Fleet / device config variables
There are two config variables that need to be added to your fleet (to apply to all devices in the fleet) or device (to apply only to one device):

- ***BALENA_SUPERVISOR_DELTA***: Set this to 1
- ***BALENA_SUPERVISOR_DELTA_VERSION***: You likely want to set this to 3 (to use balena-engine delta updates), but for older devices you will need to set it to 2 (to use rsync delta updates)

### Device config.json changes
You will need to add a parameter to config.json on devices that will be paritcipating in delta updates:

- ***deltaEndpoint***: The hostname of your `open-balena-delta` instance, i.e. delta.openbalena.<yourdomain.com>

## Limitations and Known Issues
- Needs some form of authentication for rsync download endpoint

## Credits

- Major kudos to the balena team for developing [balena-engine](https://github.com/balena-os/balena-engine), an amazing tool that improves on docker specifically for embedded and IoT use cases
